# ENGSCI 263 OR Project
### Group 10: Aryan Karan, Yinming Li, Angela Guo

## Requirements
### Python
Run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
to install the required libraries.

### API Key
Register for an [openrouteservice](https://openrouteservice.org) account and request a token at the
dashboard.

Then input your token into a `.env` file in the project directory
```
.env
ORSkey=yourAPIkey
```
in order to run `route_mapping.ipynb`.

## Usage
### Foodstuffs Data
We have been provided data on Foodstuffs stores in Auckland, found in the `foodstuffs-data` directory, including:
- `FoodstuffsDemand.csv`, which contains the number of pallets demanded at each store over a 4-week period.
- `FoodstuffsDistances.csv`, which contains the road distance, in metres, between each pair of stores, including the distribution warehouse.
- `FoodstuffsDurations.csv`, which contains the travel durations, in seconds, between each pair of stores, including the distribution warehouse.
- `FoodstuffsLocations.csv`, which contains the longitudinal and latitudinal locations of each store, including the distribution warehouse.

### Demand Analysis and Estimation
We analysed the data and produced appropriate visualisations to aid in our investigations in the `demand-estimation` directory.

`store_demand_plotting.txt` and `store_demand.txt` can be generated by running the `demand_analysis.py` file.

`DemandEstimates.csv` contains the rounded upper quartile values of the demand for each store, grouped by whether it was a weekday or Saturday.

### Route Generation
The `route-generation` directory contains our route generation algorithm which generated feasible routes that met capacity constraints in the `route_generation.ipynb` notebook, using functions from `route_generation.py`, `DemandEstimates.csv` containing demand estimates of each store and `regions.csv` containing the stores split into different regions.

### Linear Program Formulation
The `linear-program` directory contains `lp_formulation.py`, which solves a linear program based on our constructed routes and costs to make a selection of routes to minimise the total cost.

### Route Visualisation
The `route-visualisation` directory contains the `route_mapping.ipynb` notebook, which plots the locations of each store, and our selected routes for both Saturdays and weekdays.
